Add more details on host group settings and nested host groups (#2685)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/con_host-group-settings-and-nested-host-groups.adoc

[id="Host_Group_Settings_and_Nested_Host_Groups_{context}"]
= Host Group Settings and Nested Host Groups

A host group can define many settings for hosts, such as Lifecycle Environment, Content View, or Ansible roles that are available to the hosts.

> NOTE: When you change the properties of a host group, the new settings do not propagate to the hosts assigned to the host group.

Reviewer: This is important enough behavior that I think it should be elevated beyond a note (I almost skipped over it).

Author: Let's go with IMPORTANT, then. Let me know if this doesn't work for you.

Reviewer: Works for me :+1:

Only Puppet class settings get updated on hosts after you change them in the host group.

You can create a hierarchy of host groups.
Aim to have one base level host group that represents all hosts in your organization and provides general settings, and then nested groups that provide specific settings.

.Nested Host Group Hierarchy
====
You create a top-level host group named `Base` and two nested host groups named `Webserver` and `Storage`.
The nested host groups are associated with multiple hosts.

> You also create host `custom.example.com` that is not associated with any host group.

Author: That's a very good catch! Fixed.

[cols="1,1,1"]
|===
|Top-level host group |Nested host group |Host

.5+|*Base*

This host group applies the `{EL}{nbsp}8.8` operating system setting.

.2+|*Webserver*

This host group applies the `linux-system-roles.selinux` Ansible role.

|*webserver1.example.com*
|*webserver2.example.com*

.2+|*Storage*

This host group applies the `linux-system-roles.postfix` Ansible role.

|*storage1.example.com*
|*storage2.example.com*

|
|*custom.example.com*

|===

In this hierarchy:

* `Base` defines the settings common to all hosts. All hosts use {EL}{nbsp}8.8 as their operating system.
* `webserver1.example.com` and `webserver2.example.com` use the `linux-system-roles.selinux` Ansible role.

> `storage1.example.com` and `storage2.example.com` use the `linux-system-roles.postfix` Puppet class.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`storage1.example.com` and `storage2.example.com` use the `linux-system-roles.postfix` Ansible role.
```
To be consistent across the document

> * `custom.example.com` inherits none of the Puppet classes defined by the host groups.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `custom.example.com` inherits none of the Puppet classes or Ansible roles defined by the host groups.
```

====

{Project} applies host settings in the following order when nesting host groups:

* Host settings take priority over host group settings.

> * Nested host group settings take priority over parent host group settings.

Reviewer 3: I'd move this above the first example.

Reviewer: Speaking of attributes vs. properties, we're calling them a third thing here (settings) :slightly_smiling_face:

Author: Moved. I also changed all occurrences of 'attributes' and 'properties' to 'settings'. (There are some left in the procedures that follow, but I'll try to take care of that in https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/pull/2689.)

[cols="1,1,1"]
|===
|Top-level host group |Nested host group |Host

.3+a|*Base*

This host group applies these settings:

* The `{EL}{nbsp}8.8` operating system
* The `linux-system-roles.selinux` Ansible role

a|*Webserver*

This host group applies these settings:

* The `{EL}{nbsp}8.9` operating system
* No Ansible role

a|*webserver1.example.com*

*webserver2.example.com*

a|*Storage*

This host group applies these settings:

* No operating system
* The `linux-system-roles.postfix` Ansible role

a|*storage1.example.com*

*storage2.example.com*

|
a|*custom.example.com*

|===

{Project} applies settings from nested groups in the following way:

* *webserver1.example.com* and *webserver2.example.com* inherit these settings:
** The `{EL}{nbsp}8.9` operating system from host group *Webservers*
** The `linux-system-roles.selinux` Ansible role from host group *Base*
* *storage1.example.com* and *storage2.example.com* inherit these settings:
** The `{EL}{nbsp}8.8` operating system from host group *Base*
** The `linux-system-roles.postfix` Ansible role from host group *Storage*
* *custom.example.com* inherits this setting:
** The `{EL}{nbsp}8.8` operating system from host group *Base*

> 

Reviewer 3: Why not having these explanations in the last column inside the table? Similarly for the other example.

Author: I thought about this, and I must say I like the explanations where there are now. If I added them to the table, the table might get too information heavy. As always, let me know if you see it differently :)

Reviewer 3: I don't think it's necessarily a bad thing. When I was going through the table, I was expecting the "results of the maths" in the last column and I was surprised to find them under the tables.
Like this, the information is spread over too much area. Also, consider how we display tables on the CP: The user can enlarge the table and then they would to exit the table to read the rest of the information.
But I'm leaving the final decision to you.

Author: Thanks for explaining @Lennonka. I gave it a try (have I mentioned how I hate tables in asciidoc..?). Can you take another look?
